[FEATURE] Add CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md with AI policy (#5)
developmentseed/.github: CONTRIBUTING.md

## AI/LLM tool policy
This policy applies to the open-source project it is distributed with. This policy was last updated in March 2026.

## Purpose

> Our goal with this policy is to ensure high and reliable software quality by keeping humans in the loop in a collaborative creative environment. We therefore require contributors to show consideration and follow the below policy, in particular when using tools powered by Artificial Intelligence (AI) / Large Language Models (LLMs).

Reviewer: I forgot a blank line here

```suggestion
Our goal with this policy is to ensure high and reliable software quality by keeping humans in the loop in a collaborative creative environment. We therefore require contributors to show consideration and follow the below policy, in particular when using tools powered by Artificial Intelligence (AI) / Large Language Models (LLMs).

```

## Policy

> Our policy is that there must always be a human in the loop who is accountable for contributions and has read, reviewed, and understood all submitted code or text changes before they ask other project members to review them. Contributors should be sufficiently confident that the contribution is high enough quality that asking for a review is a good use of scarce maintainer time, and they should be able to answer questions about their work during review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our policy is that there must always be a human in the loop who is accountable for contributions and has read, reviewed, and understood all submitted code or text changes before asking other project members to review them. Contributors should be sufficiently confident that the contribution is high enough quality that asking for a review is a good use of scarce maintainer time, and they should be able to answer questions about their work during review.
```

## AI/LLM tool policy

> This policy applies to the project it is distributed with. This policy was last updated in March 2026.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This policy was last updated in March 2026.
```
I think this is redundant and implied by inclusion of the file

> This policy applies to the open-source project it is distributed with. This policy was last updated March, 2026.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This policy applies to the open-source project it is distributed with. This policy was last updated in March 2026.
```

> This policy applies to the open-source project it is distributed with. This policy was last updated in March 2026.

Reviewer 3: why only open-source?

Author: good call! I'll modify to just say `project`

## Purpose

> Our goal with this policy is to ensure high and reliable software quality by keeping humans in the loop in a collaborative creative environment. We therefore require contributors to show consideration and follow the below policy, in particular when using tools powered by Artificial Intelligence (AI) / Large Language Models (LLMs).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our goal with this policy is to ensure high-quality, reliable software by keeping humans in the loop. We therefore require contributors to follow the below policy whenever using tools powered by Artificial Intelligence (AI), such as Large Language Models (LLMs).
```

> 

Reviewer: Rephrased to be more of an intro / preamble, actually.

```suggestion
## Purpose
Our goal with this policy is to ensure high and reliable software quality by keeping humans in the loop in a collaborative creative environment. We therefore require contributors to show consideration and follow the below policy, in particular when using tools powered by Artificial Intelligence (AI) / Large Language Models (LLMs).
```

## Policy

> Our policy is that there must always be a human in the loop who is accountable for contributions and has read, reviewed, and understood all submitted code or text changes before asking other project members to review them. Contributors should be sufficiently confident that the contribution is high enough quality that asking for a review is a good use of scarce maintainer time, and they should be able to answer questions about their work during review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our policy is that there must always be a human in the loop who is accountable for contributions and has read, reviewed, and understood all submitted code or text changes before asking other project members to review them. Contributors should be sufficiently confident that the contribution is high enough quality that providing a review is a good use of scarce maintainer time, and they should be able to answer questions about their work during review.
```

> Our policy is that contributors can use whatever tools they would like to craft their contributions, but there must be a human in the loop. Contributors must read, review, and understand all AI (Artificial Intelligence) / Large Language Model (LLM)-generated code or text before they ask other project members to review it. The contributor is always the author and is fully accountable for their contributions. Contributors should be sufficiently confident that the contribution is high enough quality that asking for a review is a good use of scarce maintainer time, and they should be able to answer questions about their work during review.

Reviewer: Do we even need to mention AI?

```suggestion
Our policy is that there must always be a human in the loop who is accountable for contributions and has read, reviewed, and understood all submitted code or text changes before they ask other project members to review them. Contributors should be sufficiently confident that the contribution is high enough quality that asking for a review is a good use of scarce maintainer time, and they should be able to answer questions about their work during review.
```

> We aspire to be a welcoming community that helps new human contributors grow their expertise. We expect that new contributors will be less confident in their contributions, and our guidance to them is to start with small contributions that they can fully understand to build confidence and learn by taking small steps, getting feedback, and iterating. Maintainers are willing to support new human contributors through their thoughtful and empathetic feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We aspire to be a welcoming community that helps new human contributors grow their expertise. Understanding that new contributors may be less confident in their contributions, we suggest starting with targeted, bite-size contributions. These are both easier for maintainers to review and more likely to be accepted.
```

> We expect that new contributors will be less confident in their contributions, and our guidance to them is to start with small contributions that they can fully understand to build confidence. We aspire to be a welcoming community that helps new contributors grow their expertise, but learning involves taking small steps, getting feedback, and iterating. Passing maintainer feedback to an LLM doesn't help anyone grow, and does not sustain our community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We aspire to be a welcoming community that helps new human contributors grow their expertise. We expect that new contributors will be less confident in their contributions, and our guidance to them is to start with small contributions that they can fully understand to build confidence and learn by taking small steps, getting feedback, and iterating. Maintainers are willing to support new human contributors through their thoughtful and empathetic feedback.
```

Author: lovely phrasing thank you!

Prior to the advent of LLMs, open source project maintainers would often review any and all changes sent to the project simply because posting a change for review was a sign of interest from a potential long-term contributor. While new tools enable more development, it shifts effort from the implementor to the reviewer, and our policy exists to ensure that we value and do not squander maintainer time.

## Handling Violations
If a maintainer judges that a contribution doesn't comply with this policy, they should paste the following response to request changes:

```
This PR does not appear to comply with our policy on tool-generated content, and requires additional justification for why it is valuable enough to the
project for us to review it. Please see our developer policy on
AI-generated contributions in `CONTRIBUTING.md`
```

The best ways to make a change less extractive and more valuable are to reduce its size or complexity or to increase its usefulness to the community. These factors are impossible to weigh objectively, and our project policy leaves this determination up to the maintainers of the project, i.e. those who are doing the work of sustaining the project.

> If/or when it becomes clear that a GitHub issue or PR is off-track and not moving in the right direction, maintainers should apply the extractive label to help other reviewers prioritize their review time.

Reviewer 4: I think this line implies that we should create and org-wide `extractive` label that we can apply?

Author: yes good call! I'll add that to the follow up items list in the PR description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If/or when it becomes clear that a GitHub issue or PR is off-track and not moving in the right direction, maintainers should apply the `extractive` label to help other reviewers prioritize their review time.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't _love_ the tone of `extractive`. Maybe `distractive`? Or remove the tone altogether and have `ai-generated` as the label text?

Edit: I see this is specifically in relation to the nadia eghbal quote; so perhaps easiest to leave this as is, especially if other projects are also using "extractive" as a term.

Author: I think `distractive` does sound more friendly! and would still relate to the nadia quote

This is our Dev Seed policy so I don't think we should be afraid to make changes  

+1 to `ai-generated` label

> If a contributor fails to make their change meaningfully less extractive, maintainers may lock the conversation and/or close the pull request/issue/RFC. In case of repeated violations of our policy, this project reserves itself the right to ban temporarily or definitely the infringing person/account.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If a contributor fails to make their change meaningfully less extractive, maintainers may lock the conversation and/or close the pull request/issue/RFC. In case of repeated violations of our policy, this project reserves itself the right to ban temporarily or indefinitely the infringing person/account.
```

Reviewer 2: fwiw some of these updates we could make as PRs upstream. The GDAL version has these typos too.

https://github.com/OSGeo/gdal/blob/ded35dc7bb817006220dcbd477d671b6dd9140f8/doc/source/community/ai_tool_policy.rst?plain=1#L143

## Copyright
Artificial intelligence systems raise many questions around copyright that have yet to be answered. Our policy on AI tools is similar to our copyright policy: Contributors are responsible for ensuring that they have the right to contribute code under the terms of our license, typically meaning that either they, their employer, or their collaborators hold the copyright. Using AI tools to regenerate copyrighted material does not remove the copyright, and contributors are responsible for ensuring that such material does not appear in their contributions. Contributions found to violate this policy will be removed just like any other offending contribution. If a reviewer has doubts about the legal aspects of a contribution, they may ask the contributor to provide more details on the origins of a particular piece of code.

## Credits for this document

> This document is adapted from [GDAL’s AI/LLM user policy](https://gdal.org/en/stable/community/ai_tool_policy.html) which in turn is an adaptation of the [LLVM software "AI Tool Use Policy"](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/llvm/docs/AIToolPolicy.md), and due credits go to its original authors: Reid Kleckner, Hubert Tong and "maflcko".

Reviewer 2: nit, perhaps use permalinks here? The upstream policies will likely change at some point.

https://github.com/OSGeo/gdal/blob/ded35dc7bb817006220dcbd477d671b6dd9140f8/doc/source/community/ai_tool_policy.rst#L4

https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/5b7ad38d6ba835e4d4acef538846931fd64a2028/llvm/docs/AIToolPolicy.md

Author: great call done in [f427751](https://github.com/developmentseed/.github/pull/5/commits/f427751aca86b8b5acc4987cd8253da1ec83ca32)

> This document is adapted from [GDAL’s AI/LLM user policy](https://gdal.org/en/stable/community/ai_tool_policy.html) which in turn is an adaptation of the [LLVM software "AI Tool Use Policy"](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/llvm/docs/AIToolPolicy.md), and due credits go to its original authors: Reid Kleckner, Hubert Tong and "maflcko".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document is adapted from [GDAL’s AI/LLM user policy](https://gdal.org/en/stable/community/ai_tool_policy.html) which in turn is an adaptation of the [LLVM software "AI Tool Use Policy"](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/llvm/docs/AIToolPolicy.md).
```
I think it's confusing which policy those authors pertain to, and since we're linking anyways I don't think we have to repeat their names.

> This document is adapted from [GDAL’s AI/LLM user policy](https://gdal.org/en/stable/community/ai_tool_policy.html) which in turn is an adaptation of the [LLVM software "AI Tool Use Policy"](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/llvm/docs/AIToolPolicy.md), and due credits go to its original authors: Reid Kleckner, Hubert Tong and "maflcko"

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
This document is adapted from [GDAL’s AI/LLM user policy](https://gdal.org/en/stable/community/ai_tool_policy.html) which in turn is an adaptation of the [LLVM software "AI Tool Use Policy"](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/llvm/docs/AIToolPolicy.md), and due credits go to its original authors: Reid Kleckner, Hubert Tong and "maflcko".
```

> This document is adapted from [GDAL’s AI/LLM user policy](https://gdal.org/en/stable/community/ai_tool_policy.html) which is a quasi direct adaptation from the [LLVM software "AI Tool Use Policy"](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/llvm/docs/AIToolPolicy.md), and due credits go to its original authors: Reid Kleckner, Hubert Tong and "maflcko"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is adapted from [GDAL’s AI/LLM user policy](https://gdal.org/en/stable/community/ai_tool_policy.html) which in turn is an adaptation of the [LLVM software "AI Tool Use Policy"](https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/llvm/docs/AIToolPolicy.md), and due credits go to its original authors: Reid Kleckner, Hubert Tong and "maflcko"
```
